docs: Rook Ceph Upgrade (#1165)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-rook-ceph.md

# Upgrading Rook Ceph

## Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Steps](#steps)
  - [Step 1: Make a note of existing image versions](#step-1-make-a-note-of-existing-image-versions)
  - [Step 2: Ensure autoscale is on](#step-2-ensure-autoscale-is-on)
  - [Step 3: Watch ceph status](#step-3-watch-ceph-status)
  - [Step 4: Watch pods in rook namespace](#step-4-watch-pods-in-rook-namespace)
  - [Step 5: Watch rook version update](#step-5-watch-rook-version-update)
  - [Step 6: Watch ceph version update](#step-6-watch-ceph-version-update)
  - [Step 7: Watch events in rook namespace](#step-7-watch-events-in-rook-namespace)
  - [Step 8: Ceph dashboard](#step-8-ceph-dashboard)
  - [Step 9: Grafana dashboard](#step-9-grafana-dashboard)
  - [Step 10: Perform updates](#step-10-perform-updates)
  - [Step 11: Verify that the CSI images are updated](#step-11-verify-that-the-csi-images-are-updated)
  - [Step 12: Final checks](#step-12-final-checks)
- [Additional resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

> Rook Ceph is one of the storage providers of Lokomotive. With a distributed system as complex as
> Ceph, the upgrade can be tricky. This document enlists steps on how to keep an eye on the upgrade
> process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rook Ceph is one of the storage providers of Lokomotive. With a distributed system as complex as
Ceph, the upgrade process might be not trivial. This document enlists steps on how to perform it and
how it should be monitored.
```

## Steps

> Following steps are inspired from [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following steps are inspired by [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.
```

> ### Step 1: Make a note of existing image versions

Reviewer: First thing first, I'd ensure that cluster is in the healthy state.

Author: I have made some changes, PTAL. In the `ceph status` there is an important note which says don't move forward if there is anything other than `HEALTH_OK`.

Reviewer: I meant, before starting Rook Ceph upgrade user should make sure that their Kubernetes cluster is in healthy state.

    jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"  \treq/upd/avl: "}{.spec.replicas}{"/"}{.status.updatedReplicas}{"/"}{.status.readyReplicas}{"  \tceph-version="}{.metadata.labels.ceph-version}{"\n"}{end}'
```

You should see that `ceph-version` slowly changes to `15.2.5`.

### Step 7: Watch events in rook namespace

In a new terminal leave the following command running, to keep track of the events happening in the
rook namespace:

```bash
kubectl -n rook get events -w
```

### Step 8: Ceph dashboard

Open the Ceph dashboard in a browser window. Instructions to access the dashboard can be found
[here](rook-ceph-storage.md#access-the-ceph-dashboard).

> **NOTE**: Accessing dashboard can be a hassle because while the components are upgrading you may
> lose access to it multiple times.

### Step 9: Grafana dashboard

Gain access to the Grafana dashboard as instructed
[here](monitoring-with-prometheus-operator.md#access-grafana). And keep an eye on the dashboard
named `Ceph - Cluster`.

> **NOTE**: The data in the Grafana dashboard will always be outdated compared to the `watch ceph
> status` running inside the toolbox pod.

> ### Step 10: Perform updates

Reviewer: I'd add some brief note here, like "With everything monitored, you can start the update process now." or something.

```bash

> kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/master/assets/charts/components/rook/templates/resources.yaml

Author: How do we make sure that the CRDs installed here are the version that user is using?

Reviewer: Maybe use `lokoctl component render-manifest rook-ceph | yq 'select( .kind == "CustomResourceDefinition")'`?

BTW, they still didn't migrate to Helm 3... https://github.com/rook/rook/pull/5563

Author: Ideally the solution to this problem is that lokoctl spits out the CRD config or applies them manually before any component upgrade.

But right now we may rely on `yq`, although I don't like adding another dependency.

Reviewer: So maybe we should change it to v0.5.0 for now?

Hmm, we could perhaps add a flag or something to update the CRDs :thinking:

---
title: Upgrading Rook Ceph
weight: 10
---

## Introduction

[Rook Ceph](../configuration-reference/components/rook.md) is one of the storage providers of
Lokomotive. With a distributed system as complex as Ceph, the upgrade process is not trivial. This
document enlists steps on how to perform the upgrade and how to monitor this process.

## Prerequisites

- A Lokomotive cluster accessible via `kubectl`.

- Upgrade process should not be disruptive, but it is recommended to schedule a downtime for the
  applications consuming the Rook Ceph PVs and make sure to take a backup of the data before
  starting the below upgrade procedure in case some problem arises. Read more about the [backup
  process](backup-rook-ceph-volumes.md).

## Steps

> Following steps are inspired by [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps are inspired by the [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.
```

### Step 1: Ensure `AUTOSCALE` is set to `on`

Start a shell in the toolbox pod as specified in [this
doc](rook-ceph-storage.md#enable-and-access-toolbox) and run the following command:

```console
# ceph osd pool autoscale-status | grep replicapool
POOL           SIZE  TARGET SIZE  RATE  RAW CAPACITY   RATIO  TARGET RATIO  EFFECTIVE RATIO  BIAS  PG_NUM  NEW PG_NUM  AUTOSCALE
replicapool      0                 3.0         3241G  0.0000                                  1.0      32              on
```

Ensure that the `AUTOSCALE` column outputs `on` and not `warn`. If the output of the `AUTOSCALE`

> column says `warn`, then run the command below, to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled. It is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
column says `warn`, then run the command below to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled. It is
```

required to ensure that the placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases.

```bash
ceph osd pool set replicapool pg_autoscale_mode on
```

### Step 2: Watch

Watch events, updates and pods.

#### Step 2.1: Ceph status

Leave the following running in the toolbox pod:

```bash
watch ceph status
```

Ensure that the output says that `health:` is `HEALTH_OK`. Match the output such that everything
looks as explained in the [rook upgrade
docs](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html#status-output).

> **IMPORTANT**: Don't proceed further if the output is anything other than `HEALTH_OK`.

During the ongoing upgrade and after completion, make sure that the output stays in `HEALTH_OK`

> state. If the cluster is more than 60% full, then the output can sometimes turn into `HEALTH_WARN`.

Reviewer 2: So what happens if during the upgrade it shows `HEALTH_WARN` is it ok if it doesn't get full or does everything explode after that? What advice can we give to the user?

Author: HEALTH_WARN is ok to be in. TBH the user does not have control over the upgrade process and if the upgrade fails for whatever reason we can have look into it case by case basis. This upgrade doc should reflect such cases if there are any coming from upstream.

Reviewer 2: Then I guess we shouldn't say "make sure that the output stays in `HEALTH_OK`" because it's not actionable for the user. I'll make a suggestion.

#### Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace

> Keep an eye on the `STATUS` field of the following output, in another terminal window, from the
> `rook` namespace. Make sure that the pods are restarted in record time and don't go into

Reviewer 2: I find this phrasing weird.

```suggestion
Open another terminal window and keep an eye on the `STATUS` field of the following output. Make sure that the pods are restarted in record time and don't go into
```

Reviewer 2: Also, what does "pods are restated in record time" mean?

Author: The time after which the controller times out (this can be for various reasons) / starts showing error / restarts pods for some failure condition, etc.

```

You should see that `rook-version` slowly changes to `v1.4.6`.

#### Step 2.4: Ceph version update

Run the following command to keep an eye on the Ceph version update as the new pods come up in a new
terminal window:

```bash
watch --exec kubectl -n rook get deployments -l rook_cluster=rook -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"  \treq/upd/avl: "}{.spec.replicas}{"/"}{.status.updatedReplicas}{"/"}{.status.readyReplicas}{"  \tceph-version="}{.metadata.labels.ceph-version}{"\n"}{end}'
```

You should see that `ceph-version` slowly changes to `15.2.5`.

#### Step 2.5: Events in rook namespace

In a new terminal leave the following command running, to keep track of the events happening in the
`rook` namespace. Keep an eye on the column `TYPE` of the following output and especially events
that are not of type `Normal`.

```bash
kubectl -n rook get events -w
```

### Step 3: Dashboards

Monitor various dashboards.

#### Step 3.1: Ceph

Open the Ceph dashboard in a browser window. Read the docs
[here](rook-ceph-storage.md#access-the-ceph-dashboard) to access the dashboard.

> > **NOTE**: Accessing dashboard can be a hassle because while the components are upgrading you may

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Accessing the dashboard can be a hassle because while the components are upgrading you may
```

> lose access to it multiple times.

#### Step 3.2: Grafana

Gain access to the Grafana dashboard as instructed
[here](monitoring-with-prometheus-operator.md#access-grafana). And keep an eye on the dashboard
named `Ceph - Cluster`.

> **NOTE**: The data in the Grafana dashboard will always be outdated compared to the `watch ceph
> status` running inside the toolbox pod.

### Step 4: Make a note of existing image versions

Make a note of the images of the pods in the rook namespace:

```bash
kubectl -n rook get pod -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\n\t"}{.status.phase}{"\t\t"}{.spec.containers[0].image}{"\t"}{.spec.initContainers[0].image}{"\n\n"}{end}'
```

After the upgrade is complete, we can verify the output of the above command to see if the workloads
now run updated images.

### Step 5: Perform updates

With everything monitored, you can start the update process now by executing the following commands:

```bash

> kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/v0.5.0/assets/charts/components/rook/templates/resources.yaml

Reviewer 2: Is the idea to keep this tag updated as we release?

Author: We have to update the doc on each upgrade of Rook Ceph. Things may change between rook-ceph releases.

lokoctl component apply rook rook-ceph
```

### Step 6: Verify that the CSI images are updated

> Verify if the images were updated, comparing it with output of the [Step 4]().

Reviewer: Broken reference?

```bash
kubectl -n rook get pod -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\n\t"}{.status.phase}{"\t\t"}{.spec.containers[0].image}{"\t"}{.spec.initContainers[0].image}{"\n\n"}{end}'
```

### Step 7: Final checks

> Once everything is up to date then run following commands in the toolbox pod:

Reviewer: Please add some explanation why user should run it. Or what should be done with the output :)

Author: This was more of a generic verify things are ok kinda commands. Without giving much explanation into what to expect. Because the output might change dependent on the cluster.

Let me produce some intelligent sentences around it!

# Upgrading Rook Ceph

## Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Steps](#steps)
  - [Step 1: Ensure `AUTOSCALE` is `on`](#step-1-ensure-autoscale-is-on)
  - [Step 2: Watch](#step-2-watch)
    - [Step 2.1: Ceph status](#step-21-ceph-status)
    - [Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace](#step-22-pods-in-rook-namespace)
    - [Step 2.3: Rook version update](#step-23-rook-version-update)
    - [Step 2.4: Ceph version update](#step-24-ceph-version-update)
    - [Step 2.5: Events in rook namespace](#step-25-events-in-rook-namespace)
  - [Step 3: Dashboards](#step-3-dashboards)
    - [Step 3.1: Ceph](#step-31-ceph)
    - [Step 3.2: Grafana](#step-32-grafana)
  - [Step 4: Make a note of existing image versions](#step-4-make-a-note-of-existing-image-versions)
  - [Step 5: Perform updates](#step-5-perform-updates)
  - [Step 6: Verify that the CSI images are updated](#step-6-verify-that-the-csi-images-are-updated)
  - [Step 7: Final checks](#step-7-final-checks)
- [Additional resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

> Rook Ceph is one of the storage providers of Lokomotive. With a distributed system as complex as

Reviewer: I'd link here to the component documentation.

Ceph, the upgrade process is not trivial. This document enlists steps on how to perform the upgrade
and how to monitor this process.

## Steps

Following steps are inspired by [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.

> ### Step 1: Ensure `AUTOSCALE` is `on`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Ensure that all pools have the `AUTOSCALE` plugin enabled
```

Author: It can be enabled without being `on` so I have rephrased it.

> Exec into the toolbox pod as specified in [this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a shell in the toolbox pod as specified in [this
```

> doc](rook-ceph-storage.md#enable-and-access-toolbox). Once you get the shell access, run the
> following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
doc](rook-ceph-storage.md#enable-and-access-toolbox) and run the
following command:
```

> Ensure that the `AUTOSCALE` column outputs `on` and not `warn`. If the output of the `AUTOSCALE`
> column says `warn`, then run the command below to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled. It is
> required to ensure that the placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases.

Reviewer 2: I think something like this should do the trick.

```suggestion
Ensure that the `AUTOSCALE` column outputs `on` and not `warn`. This should always be `on` but it's especially important for upgrades. If the output of the `AUTOSCALE`
column says `warn`, then run the command below to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled. It is
required to ensure that the placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases.
```

# ceph osd pool autoscale-status | grep replicapool
POOL           SIZE  TARGET SIZE  RATE  RAW CAPACITY   RATIO  TARGET RATIO  EFFECTIVE RATIO  BIAS  PG_NUM  NEW PG_NUM  AUTOSCALE
replicapool      0                 3.0         3241G  0.0000                                  1.0      32              on
```

Ensure that the `AUTOSCALE` column outputs `on` and not `warn`. If the output of the `AUTOSCALE`

> column says `warn`, then run the following command, to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
column says `warn`, then run the command below, to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled.
```

> This is required to ensure that placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases.

Reviewer: Actually, why this is important from the update process point of view? Will data in the cluster increase because of the update? If so, how much etc?

Author: The data won't increase but if there is an imbalance in number of OSDs for whatever reason and when the data starts to replicate that is missing from the unresponsive OSD then we need to make sure that PGs can autoscale otherwise the data won't be replicated. This is a situation specially when the cluster is full over 60%.

Reviewer: What's the OSD time to trigger data replication to new OSD? As far as I know, there is some threshold for transient OSD failures to avoid stressing the cluster with recovery process.

Author: In a cluster of three node worker pool with replica value set to three, during the upgrade you may notice that when even one OSD goes down (for upgrade), the data replication is triggered immediately. You can see IO spike in the `ceph status` output.

Reviewer: Interesting. In any case, we should write this down :)

Author: Yes it is written.

```bash

> ceph osd pool set replicapool pg_autoscale_mode on

Reviewer: This should be executed for all pools I suppose.

Author: We currently have only one pool created with the name `replicapool` so only above command should suffice.

Leave the following running in the toolbox pod:

```bash
watch ceph status
```

Ensure that the output says that `health:` is `HEALTH_OK`. Match the output such that everything
looks as explained in the [rook upgrade
docs](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html#status-output).

> **IMPORTANT**: Don't proceed further if the output is anything other than `HEALTH_OK`.

> During the ongoing upgrade and after completion, make sure that the output stays in `HEALTH_OK`
> state. If the cluster is more than 60% full, then the output can sometimes turn into `HEALTH_WARN`.

Reviewer 2: How about this?

```suggestion
During the ongoing upgrade and after completion, the output should stay in `HEALTH_OK`
state, although if the cluster is more than 60% full, it can sometimes turn into `HEALTH_WARN` temporarily.
```

> watch ceph status

Reviewer: I suppose output of this command will be changing during the upgrade. I think we should mention that. And that it should go back to `HEALTH_OK` when the upgrade is finished.

> Ensure that the output says that `health:` is `HEALTH_OK`. Match the output such that everything

Reviewer: Perhaps we could replace `looks fine` here with something less ambiguous.

#### Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace

Open another terminal window and keep an eye on the `STATUS` field of the following output. Make

> sure that the pods are restarted in record time and don't go into `CrashLoopBackOff` state. Leave

Reviewer 2: I still don't know what `in record time` means. To me it means "in the least amount of time ever" which doesn't make sense in this context. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
sure that the pods are restarted correctly and don't go into `CrashLoopBackOff` state. Leave
```

#### Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace

Keep an eye on the pods status in another terminal window from the `rook` namespace. Leave the

> following command running:

Reviewer: Why? "So you can see if the update has been triggered and see it's progress" ? Or "when update process is started, you should start seeing pods being re-created etc."

Author: So that none of the pods go into `CrashLoopBackOff`. Yes mostly to monitor they start correctly.

Reviewer: We should write that down :)

```bash
watch kubectl -n rook get pods -o wide
```

#### Step 2.3: Rook version update

Run the following command in a new terminal window to keep an eye on the rook version update as it
is upgrades for all the sub-components:

```bash
watch --exec kubectl -n rook get deployments -l rook_cluster=rook -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"  \treq/upd/avl: "}{.spec.replicas}{"/"}{.status.updatedReplicas}{"/"}{.status.readyReplicas}{"  \trook-version="}{.metadata.labels.rook-version}{"\n"}{end}'
```

```bash
watch --exec kubectl -n rook get jobs -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"  \tsucceeded: "}{.status.succeeded}{"      \trook-version="}{.metadata.labels.rook-version}{"\n"}{end}'
```

> You should see that `rook-version` slowly changes to `v1.4.6`.

Reviewer: Should we mention specific version here?

Author: Yep, this is an upgrade doc. So anyone using latest release of lokoctl should expect above version.

Reviewer: I thought we make document version-independent. This means whenever we update Rook Ceph, we should update this document as well? This perhaps also apply to #1163 then :thinking:

Author: Yep this applies to both the docs.

#### Step 2.4: Ceph version update

Run the following command to keep an eye on the Ceph version update as the new pods come up in a new
terminal window:

```bash
watch --exec kubectl -n rook get deployments -l rook_cluster=rook -o \
  jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"  \treq/upd/avl: "}{.spec.replicas}{"/"}{.status.updatedReplicas}{"/"}{.status.readyReplicas}{"  \tceph-version="}{.metadata.labels.ceph-version}{"\n"}{end}'
```

> You should see that `ceph-version` slowly changes to `15.2.5`.

Reviewer: Should we mention specific version here?

#### Step 2.5: Events in rook namespace

> In a new terminal leave the following command running, to keep track of the events happening in the

Reviewer: As a person who does the upgrade, what kind of events are expected here? Or what events should you specifically watch out for?

Author: No nothing specific, to watch here. But in general issues like ImagePullBackOffs, PSP issues, CrashLoopBackOffs are easily tracked in events.

Reviewer: We should write that down then :)

rook namespace:

```bash
kubectl -n rook get events -w
```

### Step 3: Dashboards

Monitor various dashboards.

#### Step 3.1: Ceph

Open the Ceph dashboard in a browser window. Instructions to access the dashboard can be found
[here](rook-ceph-storage.md#access-the-ceph-dashboard).

> **NOTE**: Accessing dashboard can be a hassle because while the components are upgrading you may
> lose access to it multiple times.

#### Step 3.2: Grafana

Gain access to the Grafana dashboard as instructed
[here](monitoring-with-prometheus-operator.md#access-grafana). And keep an eye on the dashboard
named `Ceph - Cluster`.

> **NOTE**: The data in the Grafana dashboard will always be outdated compared to the `watch ceph
> status` running inside the toolbox pod.

### Step 4: Make a note of existing image versions

> Make a note of the images of the pods in the rook namespace:

Reviewer: Why this is important?

Author: To verify that the images are updated successfully at the end of the upgrade process.

Reviewer: We should write that down then :)

# Upgrading Rook Ceph

## Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Steps](#steps)
  - [Step 1: Ensure `AUTOSCALE` is `on`](#step-1-ensure-autoscale-is-on)
  - [Step 2: Watch](#step-2-watch)
    - [Step 2.1: Ceph status](#step-21-ceph-status)
    - [Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace](#step-22-pods-in-rook-namespace)
    - [Step 2.3: Rook version update](#step-23-rook-version-update)
    - [Step 2.4: Ceph version update](#step-24-ceph-version-update)
    - [Step 2.5: Events in rook namespace](#step-25-events-in-rook-namespace)
  - [Step 3: Dashboards](#step-3-dashboards)
    - [Step 3.1: Ceph](#step-31-ceph)
    - [Step 3.2: Grafana](#step-32-grafana)
  - [Step 4: Make a note of existing image versions](#step-4-make-a-note-of-existing-image-versions)
  - [Step 5: Perform updates](#step-5-perform-updates)
  - [Step 6: Verify that the CSI images are updated](#step-6-verify-that-the-csi-images-are-updated)
  - [Step 7: Final checks](#step-7-final-checks)

> - [Additional resources](#additional-resources)

Reviewer: Header must be updated to new docs format. See other howtos as example.

## Introduction

> [Rook Ceph](../configuration-reference/components/rook.md) is one of the storage providers of

Reviewer: In OpenEBS guide we recommend scheduling a downtime and taking backup before upgrading storage. Should we do the same here?

Lokomotive. With a distributed system as complex as Ceph, the upgrade process is not trivial. This
document enlists steps on how to perform the upgrade and how to monitor this process.

## Steps

Following steps are inspired by [`rook`](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html) docs.

### Step 1: Ensure `AUTOSCALE` is set to `on`

Start a shell in the toolbox pod as specified in [this
doc](rook-ceph-storage.md#enable-and-access-toolbox) and run the following command:

```console
# ceph osd pool autoscale-status | grep replicapool
POOL           SIZE  TARGET SIZE  RATE  RAW CAPACITY   RATIO  TARGET RATIO  EFFECTIVE RATIO  BIAS  PG_NUM  NEW PG_NUM  AUTOSCALE
replicapool      0                 3.0         3241G  0.0000                                  1.0      32              on
```

Ensure that the `AUTOSCALE` column outputs `on` and not `warn`. If the output of the `AUTOSCALE`
column says `warn`, then run the command below, to make sure that pool autoscaling is enabled. It is

> required to ensure that the placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
required to ensure that the placement groups scale up as the data in the cluster increases during the upgrade when individual OSDs gets updated.
```

Author: This should always be `on` regardless of upgrade or anything else.

Reviewer: This part still feels somehow incomplete to me. Maybe we can add that "it is recommended that this option is always on, especially during the upgrade when..." ?

Author: Could you quote what should I change it to exactly? I am finding it hard to rephrase.

```bash
ceph osd pool set replicapool pg_autoscale_mode on
```

### Step 2: Watch

Watch events, updates and pods.

#### Step 2.1: Ceph status

Leave the following running in the toolbox pod:

```bash
watch ceph status
```

Ensure that the output says that `health:` is `HEALTH_OK`. Match the output such that everything
looks as explained in the [rook upgrade
docs](https://rook.io/docs/rook/master/ceph-upgrade.html#status-output).

> **IMPORTANT**: Don't proceed further if the output is anything other than `HEALTH_OK`.

During the ongoing upgrade and after completion, make sure that the output stays in `HEALTH_OK`

> state. If the cluster 60% full, then the output can sometimes turn into `HEALTH_WARN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
state. If the cluster is more than 60% full, then the output can sometimes turn into `HEALTH_WARN`.
```

#### Step 2.2: Pods in rook namespace

Keep an eye on the `STATUS` field of the following output, in another terminal window, from the
`rook` namespace. Make sure that the pods are restarted in record time and don't go into
`CrashLoopBackOff` state. Leave the following command running:

```bash
watch kubectl -n rook get pods -o wide
```

#### Step 2.3: Rook version update

> Run the following command in a new terminal window to keep an eye on the rook version update as it
> is upgrades for all the sub-components:

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't sound right to me.
```suggestion
Run the following command in a new terminal window to keep an eye on the rook version as it
is updated for all the sub-components:
```
